<h1>Product Context</h1>

<h2>Legal</h2>
Legal Considerations include,<br>
- Software license<br>
- Ownership<br>
- Country’s data protection laws

<p>Our team has worked keenly in developing a product that falls under the rules of the UK and the EU. Moreover, we strategized our marketing plans and planned which markets our product would most likely be advertised in. Where both nations' laws strongly hold regulations that emphasize privacy and data security. Where the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is the strongest security and privacy law globally, especially when the information is related to personal data. Similarly, the UK also emphasizes the GDPR which implements laws such as “The Data Protection Act 2018”.</p>

<p>When programming our project, the data that was used was all experimental. Therefore, we didn’t require any consent as the names and all related data was simulated. Where we created a simulated list of names with their school performance to test our software and simulate the graphs and plots, in addition to exporting the data obtained. Furthermore, we have used a library called “JFreeChart” which lies under the LGPL license. “LGPL imposes no conditions on using the code in software that's sold commercially” (Dependency Heaven, 2021). Projects that involve extensive displaying of charts dynamic population of data, could be done simply using JFreeChart. JFreeChart is primarily used when developing software using Java when the software generates graphs/charts such as bar charts, line charts, and scatter plots. Where our product would display the student and the class's overall performance using a scatter plot. Yet, JFreeChart is an open-source library, hence it wouldn’t cause any legal issues for our team. Additionally, JFreeChart is permitted in commercial applications and a free library which allows our team to utilize it without any additional expenses. Our team considers JFreeChart the most suitable library as it supports many data exportation outputs such as PDF, JPEG, PNG, and many others. If our team also plans to develop the product and add more features which could include client-side and server-side, then using JFreeChart would permit our team to accomplish that. From a legal aspect, this library would be one of the most appropriate libraries to use for our software as there are no legal limitations to it.</p>

<p>As software that was developed by a team consisting of four members, we attempt to use the most suitable license which does not permit our program to be shared on any platform or by any institution. A proprietary License would be the most suitable license to be used for our software as protects our product from being distributed without our consent. Where Proprietary License “helps the software developer to stay in control of how the software is used and who uses it”(10Duke, 2023). With this type of license, users cannot manipulate or add/remove any features from our product. Yet, a Proprietary License doesn’t completely protect our product as anyone who gains access to our product could possibly modify it. Therefore, to be protected legally, we need to add lengthy terms and condition which includes our copyrights and the methodology of the product distribution, and the consequences of misusing it. </p>

<p>There are many legal aspects that could protect our product from copywriting as well as protect our customers. In 1988, a few legal acts for software industries were introduced, Copyright, Designs and Patents Act of 1988. Where the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act of 1988 gives the developers/designers of a certain production the right to control how their product is being utilized, which could involve musical, dramatic, artistic, and literary projects. These rights involve the way a supplier/individual sells, loans, and distributes methods to the public. Moreover, further legal regulations were added as it stresses the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act of 1988. In 1992, The Copyright Regulations 1992 extends the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act of 1988 by adding design material for software, providing “decompiling” limitations for licensed programs which allows further collaborative work with another program, and back-up copying of licensed software (sites.google.com (n.d.)). Originally, Copyright laws were conceptualized from the British common law, the Statute of Anne 1709. Under these regulations, our product would be protected from being copied, as we legally hold all copywrites, which involve the layout design and the program code, where our program lies under literary works. This also applies to parties whom our team would sell/lend our product, where the institute can’t rent or sell our product without our consent.</p>

<p>Users/consumers of the software have rights that protect their information confidentiality too. Where education institutes are protected under the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA). Data Protection Act 2018 is primarily a law that frameworks data protection in the UK. Originally, British laws outlines information protection under Data Protection Act 1998. However, in 2018, it was replaced by the Data Protection Act 2018 which was finally amended in 2021, as part of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU. Data Protection Act 2018 lies alongside the UK General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR). Based on EU GDPR, UK GDPR was implemented in 2021 with minor changes which suit UK’s public context more effectively.</p>

<p>On the other hand, members of the public could access some of these records. Where, under the Freedom of Information Act 2000, any information held by public authorities such as educational institutes, government departments, and many other organizations are obligated to supply information about a certain group of people held within a data, such as student data. Where a member of the public could write a letter within 20 working days to a public authority or an educational institute describing the data required. Then, the authorities would provide their data accordingly, where they must respond appropriately. However, there are a few limits that these organizations/institutes could withhold which include information about race, gender, ethnicity, religion, and sexual orientation which is a sensitive matter for the public. Under the Freedom of Information Act 2000, our product’s consumers would be protected legally from any access to their private data, as well as they have the right to be informed if their data was requested by a member of the public.</p>

<h2>Ethical</h2>
<p>We are well aware of the ethical issues that arise when using software like that created by us for a grading system. The tension between the need to publish accurate and honest grades and the duty to preserve student privacy is one of the duty-based (Deontological) ethical problems that occur during the course of the task. Although it is the goal of our programme to provide a fair and impartial assessment of student performance, we are conscious of the potential for bias and discrimination in grading. We have implemented a variety of precautions to guarantee that the software is used morally in order to allay these worries. These consist of regularly examining the grading algorithm to find and remove any potential biases as well as utilising. They include reviewing the grading algorithm on a regular basis to identify and eliminate any biases that may occur, as well as using objective scoring criteria to reduce the risk of bias grading. These include adopting objective scoring criteria to lessen the danger of biased grading as well as routinely examining the grading algorithm to spot and eradicate any potential biases.</p>

<p>Additionally, Contractual agreements between the organisation and the students have brought up ethical concerns during the development of the product. One of the primary problems for the product and for us as the developers with regard to contract-based (rights) ethics is this. Making sure that the contracts between the organisation and the students are unambiguous and that my ownership rights as a developer do not clash with the rights of student data ownership is one of the primary issues. To ensure that student data is handled and protected in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, this calls for the inclusion of explicit terms and conditions inside the grading system software. To overcome these challenges, it is essential to create clear contractual agreements between the institution and the software provider that outline the terms and conditions of the program's use. In order to do this, the developer's ownership rights must be protected, as must the ownership rights of student data. Establishing a detailed agreement with the organisation before transferring the software to them is one practical way to handle this problem. The ownership rights to the software and the data it contains must be expressly stated in the agreement. It should also create rules for its usage and management and contain procedures to safeguard the privacy and confidentiality of the organisation's student data.</p>


<h2>Health and Safety</h2>
<p>As with any software, software for grading systems must consider health and safety. It is our responsibility as programmers to ensure that teachers' and students' safety is taken into account when developing our software. A number of potential health and safety issues are brought up by the use of grading software.</p>

<p>One issue is eye exhaustion and vision problems. Teachers who use grading software frequently may experience eye strain, headaches, and other vision issues as a result of prolonged computer screen exposure. Although it is very uncommon to experience any effects, it is possible. To prevent further damage to their eyesight and any other potential health issues, teachers should take frequent breaks to rest their eyes and, if necessary, wear Blu-ray prevention glasses.</p>

<p>The use of grading software may also be detrimental to mental health. Teachers may experience higher levels of stress and anxiety as a result of the software's potential for stress and time commitment. The software should be made with user-friendly interfaces and automated grading features to address this and lessen teacher workload while boosting productivity. We took great care to make the software as user-friendly as possible so that it wouldn't irritate or otherwise negatively impact the user.</p>

<p>Technical difficulties with the software can also result in irritation, time waste, and inaccurate grading. This could result in inaccurate grades, which could have an impact on the student's performance and academic outcomes. To ensure the software's dependability and functionality, it should go through rigorous testing and quality control procedures before being released. The programme is as reliable as it can be because we thoroughly tested it to ensure that it wasn't making any errors or doing anything it shouldn't, preventing user frustration and software fatigue.</p>

<p>Another healthy and safety problem would be the posture and sitting habits of the user. Posture and sitting habits can play big role in the health and safety of the user and they should be aware of it. additionally, the user should be encouraged to maintain good posture while using the software, and the software interface should be designed to encourage proper ergonomic positioning. Depending on the client requirement, we could provide teaching on the posture and sitting habit for the user.</p>

<p>The user's sitting habits and posture should be considered as a major health and safety issue. Poor posture and sitting habits can lead to back and neck pain as well as other musculoskeletal disorders. To solve this issue, we advise users to maintain good posture while using the software. Additionally, the software interface should is designed to promote ergonomically sound positioning. To ensure their long-term safety and health, we might be able to teach clients and end-users about proper posture and sitting techniques depending on the client.</p>

<p>In Conclusion, we have discovered a number of potential health and safety issues that may affect users of the grading system software, including eye strain, repetitive strain injuries, mental health problems, technical problems, and user interface and accessibility issues. But we have also developed a number of solutions to address these issues, including adding ergonomic features, educating users on proper posture and sitting techniques, developing user-friendly user interfaces, and giving data security and privacy a high priority. Our grading system software is robust and thoroughly tested for optimal performance, making it more efficient and safe for users to use.</p>


<h2>Equality, diversity, and inclusion statement:</h2>
<p>We are dedicated to supporting and upholding the values of inclusion, diversity, and equality in our grading software. Regardless of background, race, gender, religion, sexual orientation, or any other characteristic, we think every student deserves the chance to succeed.</p>

<p>Our software is made to be fair and unbiased, and we constantly work to identify and eliminate any potential biases or obstacles that might be present. We make a lot of effort to ensure that our software does not favour any one student over another and that it offers accurate, impartial assessments of each student's performance.</p>

<p>We are dedicated to fostering a warm and inclusive learning environment for all students because we recognise the importance of diversity and inclusion in education. By promoting diversity and inclusivity, we believe we can help society become more just and equitable.</p>

<p>We will committed to collaborating with educational institutions to advance equality, diversity, and inclusion in the classroom, and we are always open to suggestions and feedback on how to make our software better for all students.</p>